07-July-2022 
1.What is cloud Computing??
Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of IT resources over the Internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. Instead of buying, owning, and maintaining physical data centers and servers, you can access technology services, such as computing power, storage, and databases, on an as-needed basis from a cloud provider like Amazon Web Services (AWS). 
2. What are the different types of cloud based on service and deployment? 
Different types of cloud computing deployment models are:
1.	Public cloud 
2.	Private cloud
3.	Hybrid cloud
4.	Community cloud
5.	Multi-cloud
3. What is scaling?? 
Scaling in cloud computing refers to the ability to increase or decrease IT resources as needed to meet changing demand
4. What are the different types of scaling? Explain
 Two types of scaling are Vertical scaling and Horizontal scaling.
Vertical scaling : With vertical scaling, you can add or subtract resources, including memory or storage, within the server, as long as the resources do not exceed the capacity of the machine.
Horizontal scaling :  Horizontal scaling refers to adding more servers to your network, rather than simply adding resources like with vertical scaling. This method tends to take more time and is more complex, but it allows you to connect servers together, handle traffic efficiently and execute concurrent workloads.
5. What are the advantages of Cloud?? 
There are many benefits to moving your business to the cloud:
•	Reduced IT costs. Moving to cloud computing may reduce the cost of managing and maintaining your IT systems. ...
•	Scalability
•	Business continuity.
•	Collaboration efficiency.
•	Flexibility of work practices.
•	Access to automatic updates. 

6.	What is a data center?? 
A data center is a centralized physical facility where corporate computers, network, storage, and other IT equipment that support business operations live.
7.	What do you mean multi-tenant?? 
A multi-tenant cloud is a cloud computing architecture that allows customers to share computing resources in a public or private cloud. Each tenant's data is isolated and remains invisible to other tenants. In a multi-tenant cloud system, users have individualized space for storing their projects and data.
8.	What do you mean by Pay-as-you-go?? 
Pay as you go is a billing model in cloud computing where users are charged for the computing resources used by their applications and not for the entire infrastructure cost.
9.	What do you mean by cloud provider? 
A cloud service provider is a third-party company offering a cloud-based platform, infrastructure, application, or storage services. companies typically have to pay only for the amount of cloud services they use, as business demands require.
10. What is cloud service??? 
      The term "cloud services" refers to a wide range of services delivered on demand to companies and customers over the internet. These services are designed to provide easy, affordable access to applications and resources, without the need for internal infrastructure or hardware.
11.What are the key characteristics of cloud computing?
     Here’s a list of the top 10 major characteristics of Cloud Computing:
1.	Resources Pooling
2.	On-Demand Self-Service
3.	Easy Maintenance
4.	Scalability And Rapid Elasticity
5.	Economical
6.	Measured And Reporting Service
7.	Security
8.	Automation
9.	Resiliency And Availability
10.	Large Network Access
11.	Work From Any Location
12.	Multi-Tenancy
13.	Flexibility
14.	Service Excellence
15.	Comfortable Payment Structure

12. What is “X “as a service?
      Anything as a service (XaaS) describes a general category of services related to cloud computing and remote access. It recognizes the vast number of products, tools, and technologies that are now delivered to users as a service over the internet.

Day2-Assignment-08-July-2022 
1. What are the 3 fundamentals of AWS pricing? 
There are three fundamental drivers of cost with AWS: compute, storage, and outbound data transfer.
Compute : For compute resources, you pay hourly from the time you launch a resource until the time you terminate it, unless you have made a reservation for which the cost is agreed upon beforehand.
Storage : 
Outbound Data Transfer : Outbound data transfer is aggregated across services and then charged at the outbound data transfer rate. This charge appears on the monthly statement as AWS Data Transfer Out.
2. What are regional and global services? 
AWS provides a lot of services and these services are either Global, Regional or specific to the Availability Zone and cannot be accessed outside. Most of the AWS managed services are regional based services (except for IAM, Route53, CloudFront etc).
3. What is a Region? 
AWS has the concept of a Region, which is a physical location around the world where data centers are located. Each group of logical data centers is called an Availability Zone. Each AWS Region consists of multiple, isolated, and physically separate AZs within a geographic area.
4. What is an AZ? 
AZ stands for availability zone. Availability zones are highly available data centers within each AWS region. A region represents a separate geographic area. Each availability zone has independent power, cooling and networking. When an entire availability zone goes down, AWS is able to failover workloads to one of the other zones in the same region
5. What is points of presence?
 The POPs are used for both AWS CloudFront to deliver content to end users at high speeds, and Lambda@Edge to run Lambda functions with the lowest possible latency.
6. What are the different types of cloud based on service and deployment?  
The different types of cloud computing deployment models are 
Public, private, community, hybrid.
Public cloud : Public deployment models in the cloud are perfect for organizations with growing and fluctuating demands. It also makes a great choice for companies with low-security concerns. Thus, you pay a cloud service provider for networking services, compute virtualization & storage available on the public internet. This is also a great delivery model for the teams with development and testing. Its configuration and deployment are quick and easy, making it an ideal choice for test environments.
Since it is accessible to all, it does not fully protect against cyber-attacks and could lead to vulnerabilities

Private cloud : Companies that look for cost efficiency and greater control over data & resources will find the private cloud a more suitable choice.
What it means is that it will be integrated with your data center and managed by your IT team. Alternatively, you can also choose to host it externally. When it comes to customization, the private cloud offers bigger opportunities that help meet specific organization’s requirements. 
With the benefits that you get, the investment will also be larger than the public cloud. Here, you will pay for software, hardware and resources for staff and training.
Community cloud : The community cloud operates in a way that is similar to the public cloud. There’s just one difference – it allows access to only a specific set of users who share common objectives and use cases. This type of deployment model of cloud computing is managed and hosted internally or by a third-party vendor. However, you can also choose a combination of all three.
A community cloud is much cheaper than the private & public cloud and provides great performance.
Hybrid Cloud: A company that has critical data will prefer storing on a private cloud, while less sensitive data can be stored on a public cloud. The hybrid cloud is also frequently used for ‘cloud bursting’. It means, suppose an organization runs an application on-premises, but due to heavy load, they can burst into the public cloud.
 
7. Explain about Global infrastructure components.
The Global infrastructure components are:
Availability Zones (AZs) : Availability zones are highly available data centers within each AWS region. There may be one or more data centres within an availability zone separated by some distance.
Regions : A region represents a separate geographical area which has two or more availability zones under it. These AZ are isolated with each other and are connected with physical cables with each other.
Edge Locations: Edge locations are AWS data centers designed to deliver services with the lowest latency possible. Amazon has dozens of these data centers spread across the world. They’re closer to users than Regions or Availability Zones, often in major cities, so responses can be fast
